## Problem 2 from May 2019 (Approx. 72 minutes)

Abalance  bike(Danish:  “løbecykel”  )  is  a  bike  used  by  small  children,  where  they  canlearn how to ride without having to worry about pedals and brakes.  In its barest form,a  balance  bike  is  constructed  from  a  frame,  two  wheels,  a  saddle,  handlebars,  nuts  andbolts, which constitute thepartsof the bike.  The manufacturing of a balance bike may bedivided into a sequence of threetasks.  For example, first mount two wheels on the frame,then mount the saddle, and finally, mount handlebars.

Anassembly  lineis  a  manufacturing  process  where  parts  successively  are  added  to  anassembly atworkstationsuntil the final product is obtained.  Apart register (type PartReg) associates costs with parts, and atask register (type TaskReg) associates a pair (d,c) witha tasktsk, wheredis the time needed to performtskandcis the associated cost.  We also call d the duration of the task:

```fsharp
type Part = string
type Task     = string
type Cost     = int                 (* can be assumed to be positive *)
type Duration = int                 (* can be assumed to be positive *)
type PartReg  = Map<Part, Cost>
type TaskReg  = Map<Task, Duration*Cost>


(* Part and task registers for balance bikes *)
let preg1 = Map.ofList [("wheel",50); ("saddle",10); ("handlebars",75);("frame",100); ("screw bolt",5); ("nut",3)]
let treg1 = Map.ofList [("addWheels",(10,2)); ("addSaddle",(5,2));("addHandlebars",(6,1))]
```

We observe, from the two example registers, that the cost of a wheel is 50 (say Danish kr.) and mounting a saddle (task "addSaddle") takes 5 time units and costs 2 kr. A workstation is described by a task (like "addSaddle") and a part list,  describing the number of the various parts that are needed to perform the task. Furthermore, an assemblyline is a list of workstations:

```fsharp
type WorkStation = Task * (Part*int) list
type AssemblyLine = WorkStation list


let ws1 = ("addWheels",[("wheel",2);("frame",1);("screw bolt",2);("nut",2)])
let ws2 = ("addSaddle",[("saddle",1);("screw bolt",1);("nut",1)])
let ws3 = ("addHandlebars",[("handlebars",1);("screw bolt",1);("nut",1)])

let al1 = [ws1; ws2; ws3];;
```

We  see  that  the  assembly  line  for  balanced  bikes  consists  of  3  workstations,  where,  forexample, the work station for mounting the saddle requires one piece of each of the parts:saddle, screw bolt and nut.

A workstation (tsk,[(p1,k1);...; (pn;kn)]) is  well-defined for given part register *preg* and *task* registertreg, 

if:

1. there is an entry for *tsk* in *treg*, 
2. there is an entry in *preg* for every *pi*, where 1≤i≤n, and 
3. the numbers k1,...kn are all positive. 

Furthermore, anassembly line is well-defined for given part registerpregand task registertreg if every workstation in the assembly line is well-defined.

##### 1. Declare a function *wellDefWS*: PartReg -> TaskReg ->  WorkStation -> bool that checks the well-definedness of a workstation for given part and task registers.

```fsharp
let rec wellDefWS (preg: PartReg) (treg: TaskReg) (ws: WorkStation) =
    let (name, parts) = ws
    let rule1 = Map.containsKey name treg

    let rule23 =
        List.forall (fun (part, _) -> Map.containsKey part preg) parts

    rule1 && rule23
```

##### 2. Declare a function *wellDefAL*: PartReg -> TaskReg -> AssemblyLine -> boolthatchecks the well-definedness of an assembly line for given part and task registers. This function should be declared using List.forall.

```fsharp
let wellDefAL preg treg al = List.forall (fun ws -> wellDefWS preg treg ws) al
```

In your answers to the following questions, you can assume that workstations and assembly lines are well-defined.

##### 3. Declare a function *longestDuration (al,treg)*, where *al* is an assembly line and *treg* a task register. The value of *longestDuration(al,treg)* is the longest duration of a task in *al*. What is the type of *longestDuration*? For example, the longest duration of a task in the assembly line for balanced bikes is 10 (the duration of "addWheels").

```fsharp
let longestDuration (al: AssemblyLine, treg:TaskReg) =
    List.fold (fun max (name, preg) -> 
                                let (dur , cost) = Map.find name treg
                                if dur > max then dur
                                else max
                                ) 0 al

longestDuration (al1, treg1)
```

##### 4. Declare a function *partCostAL: PartReg -> AssemblyLine -> Cost*, that computes the accumulated cost of all parts needed for one final product of an assembly line for a given part register. For example, the accumulated cost of all parts of a balanced bike is 317 - the cost of one frame, two wheels, one saddle, handlebars, 4 nuts and 4 screwbolts.

Hint:   You  may  introduce  helper  functions  to  deal  with  workstations  and  part  lists[(p1,k1);...; (pn;kn)].

```fsharp

```